# Guided Practice 8.4: Solving Radical Equations

## Overview

In the last lesson, you learned about _radical functions_ and their use in modeling data of a particular shape. In the next lesson we add an algebraic method to our repertoire of working with radical functions that will allow us to solve equations that involve radical functions. 

## Learning objectives

__Basic objectives__: Each student is responsible for gaining proficiency with each of these tasks _prior_ to engaging in class discussions, through the use of the learning resources (below) and through the working of exercises (also below). 

+ Solve equations involving a single square root. 
+ Solve radical equations involving more than one square root. 

__Advanced objectives__: The following objectives are the subject of class discussion and further work; they should be mastered by each student _during_ and _following_ class discussions. 

+ Use radical equations to solve application problems. 
+ Solve radical equations involving higher roots. 


## Learning resources 

To gain proficiency in the learning objectives, use the following resources. You may include other resources if you wish, in addition to or in replacement of the following. 

__Textbook__: In your _Intermediate Algebra_ textbook read Section 8.4. Make sure to read actively, working through examples and activities as you go. 

__Video__: Watch the following video(s) at the GVSU Mathematics Department YouTube channel: 

+ [Radical equations](https://youtu.be/SFv79eKOoZY) (10:40) 
+ [Radical applications](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OuwYjcvRJxg&list=PL476C3C1676343E03&index=1) (3:49) 

## Exercises

The following exercises are to be done _during_ and _following_ your reading and viewing of the resources. Work these out on paper and then enter the responses into the appropriate submission form (see Submission Instructions) by the deadline. You will receive a mark of __Pass__ if each item response shows a good-faith effort to be right and is submitted prior to the deadline. 

1. Solve the equation $\sqrt{7x+1} = 13$. 
2. Solve the equation $-0.25\sqrt{2.3w} = -14$. Use algebra and give your answer to two decimal places. 
3. Solve the equation $\sqrt{p+6} = \sqrt{3p+2}$. 
4. Solve the equation $\sqrt[5]{x-8} = 4$. 

## Submission instructions

Submit your responses using the form at this link: [http://bit.ly/1LcUb9O](http://bit.ly/1LcUb9O)